Kafka is a distributed Message streamin platform that use publish and subscribe machinism to stream the recornds. 
Originally developed by linkidin and later donated to apache foundation.
Kafka is a opensource platform .



A messaging system is responsible for transfering data from one application to 
anather so the application can focus on data without getting bogged down on data transmission and sharing 

Two types-
1. Point to Point Messaging System 
 > Massages are persisted in a Queue
 > Aparticular message can be consumed by a maximum of one receiver only.
 > there is no time dependency laid for the receiver to receive the message 
 when the Receives the message .it will sent an acknowledgement back to the senders .
 

 2. Publish-Subscribe Messaging System 
 >Messages are persisted in a Topic.
 > A particular message can be consumed by any number of consumers .
 >There is time dependency laid for the consumer to consume the message.
 > When the Subscriber receives the message .it doesn't send an acknowledgement back to the  Publisher.
 
 Topics -- A  stream of messages belongs to a particular category is called a topic.
 it is a logical feed name to which records are published.
 Similarly to a table in a databse 
 Unique identifier of topiv is its Name.
 We can create as many topics as we want .
 
 Partitions --- Topics are spilt in Partitions.
 All the massage within a partions are ordered and immutable 
 Each message wi
 thin a partition has a unique id associate known as Offset 
 
 partition are uses round robin rule to distribute each others in brokers 
 
 ---Replica and Replication - Replica are backup of partition . Replicas are never read or write data.They are used to prevent data loss.
 
 ---Producer are applications which write or publish data to the topics within a cluster usining the Producing APIs.
 Producer can write data either on the topic level or specific partitions of the topics.
 
 ---Consumers are applications which read/ consume date from the topics within a cluster usining the Consuming APIs
 Consumers can read data either topics level or specific partitions of topics 
 A consumer Group is a group of related consumers that perform a task
 
--- Broker --- Brokers are simple software process who maintain and manage the publishes message .Also known as kafka servers.
Brokers also manage the consumer-offsets and responsible for the delivery of messages to the right consumers.
Aset of brokers who are communicating with each othres to perform the management and maintanence task are collectively known as Kafka Cluster 

We can add more brokens in a already running kafka cluster without any downtime .


---Zookeeper is used to monitor kafka cluster and co-ordinate with each broker .
Keeps all the metadata informations related to kafka cluster in the form of a key value pair 

Metadata includes 
1. Confiuration information
2.Health status or each broker 
It is used for the controller election 

